God save you, Sir John!
I will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.
Then to you, Mistress Dorothy; I will charge you.
I know you, Mistress Dorothy.
God let me not live, but I will murder your ruff for this.
Not I: I tell thee what, Corporal Bardolph, I could tear her: I 'll be revenged of her.
I 'll see her damned first; to Pluto's damned lake, by this hand, to the infernal deep, with Erebus and tortures vile also. Hold hook and line, say I. Down, down, dogs! down, faitors! Have we not Hiren here ?
These be good humors, indeed!  Shall pack-horses And hollow pamper'd jades of Asia, Which cannot go but thirty mile a-day, Compare with Csars, and with Cannibals, And Trojan Greeks? nay, rather damn them with King Cerberus; and let the welkin roar. Shall we fall foul for toys?
Die men like dogs! give crowns like pinsl Have we not Hiren here?
Then feed, and be fat, my fair Calipolis. Come, give's some sack. 'Si fortune me tormente, sperato me contento.' Fear we broadsides? no, let the fiend give fire: Give me some sack: and, sweetheart, lie thou there. Come we to fill points here; and are etceteras nothing ?
Sweet knight, I kiss thy neif: what! we have seen the seven stars.
Thrust him down stairs! know   we not Galloway nags?
What! shall we have incision? shall we imbrue? Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days! Why, then, let grievous, ghastly, gaping wounds Untwine the Sisters Three!  Come Atropos, I say!
Sir John, God save youl
Not the ill wind which blows no man to good. Sweet knight, thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm.
Puff! Puff in thy teeth, most recreant coward base! Sir John, I am thy Pistol and thy friend, And helter-skelter have I rode to thee, And tidings do I bring and lucky joys And golden times and happy news of price.
A foutre for the world and worldlings base! I speak of Africa and golden joys.
Shall dunghill curs confront the Helicons? And shall good news be baffled? Then, Pistol, lay thy head in Furies' lap.
Why then, lament therefore.
Under which king, Besonian? speak, or die.
Harry the Fourth? or Fifth?
A foutre for thine office! Sir John, thy tender lambkin now is king; Harry the Fifth's the man. I speak the truth: When Pistol lies, do this; and fig me, like The bragging Spaniard.
As nail in door: the things I speak are just.
What! I do bring good news.
Let vultures vile seize on his lungs also ! 'Where is the life that late I led?' say they: 'Why, here it is; welcome these pleasant days!
God bless thy lungs, good knight.
'Tis 'semper idem,' for 'obsque hoc nihil est:' 'tis all in every part.
My knight, I will inflame thy noble liver, And make thee rage. Thy Doll, and Helen of thy noble thoughts, Is in base durance and contagious prison; Haled thither By most mechanical and dirty hand: Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell Alecto's snake, For Doll is in.   Pistol speaks nought but truth.
There roar'd the sea, and trumpet clangor sounds. 
The heavens thee guard and keep, most royal imp of fame!
Si fortuna me tormenta, spero contenta. 
