Many good morrows to your majesty!
'Tis one o'clock, and past.
We have, my liege.
It is but as a body yet distemper'd; Which to his former strength may be restored With good advice and little medicine: My Lord Northumberland will soon be cool'd.
There is a history in all men's lives, Figuring the nature of the times deceased; The which observed, a man may prophesy, With a near aim, of the main chance of things As yet not come to life, which in their seeds And weak beginnings lie intreasured. Such things become the hatch and brood of time; And by the necessary form of this King Richard might create a perfect guess That great Northumberland, then false to him, Would of that seed grow to a greater falseness; Which should not find a ground to root upon, Unless on you.
It cannot be, my lord; Rumour doth double, like the voice and echo, The numbers of the fear'd. Please it your grace To go to bed. Upon my soul, my lord, The powers that you already have sent forth Shall bring this prize in very easily. To comfort you the more, I have received A certain instance that Glendower is dead. Your majesty hath been this fortnight ill, And these unseason'd hours perforce must add Unto your sickness.
Both which we doubt not but your majesty Shall soon enjoy.
My gracious lord, you look beyond him quite: The prince but studies his companions Like a strange tongue, wherein, to gain the language, 'Tis needful that the most immodest word Be look'd upon and learn'd; which once attain'd, Your highness knows, comes to no further use But to be known and hated. So, like gross terms, The prince will in the perfectness of time Cast off his followers; and their memory Shall as a pattern or a measure live, By which his grace must mete the lives of others, Turning past evils to advantages.
Be patient, princes; you do know, these fits Are with his highness very ordinary. Stand from him, give him air; he'll straight be well.
Speak lower, princes, for the king recovers.
Call for the music in the other room.
Less noise, less noise
Not so much noise, my lords: sweet prince, speak low; The king your father is disposed to sleep.
Will 't please your grace to go along with us?
What would your majesty?   How fares your grace?
This door is open; he is gone this way.
When we withdrew, my liege, we left it here.
My lord, I found the prince in the next room. Washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks, With such a deep demeanor in great sorrow That tyranny, which never quaff'd but blood, Would, by beholding him, have wash'd his knife With gentle eye-drops. He is coming hither.
'Tis call'd Jerusalem, my noble lord.
How now, my lord chief-justice! whither away?
Exceeding well; his cares are now all ended.
He's walk'd the way of nature; And to our purposes he lives no more.
Indeed I think the young king loves you not.
Here come the heavy issue of dead Harry: O that the living Harry had the temper Of him, the worst of these three gentlemen! How many nobles then should hold their places, That must strike sail to spirits of vile sort!
We do remember; but our argument Is all too heavy to admit much talk.
Here comes the prince.
