Before God, I am exceeding weary.
Faith, it does me; though it dis- colors the complexion of my greatness to acknowledge it. Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer?
Belike then my appetite was not princely got; for, by my troth, I do now remember the poor creature, small beer. But, indeed, these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness. What a disgrace is it to me to remember thy name!   or to know thy face to-morrow! or to take note how many pair of silk stockings thou hast, viz. these, and those that were thy peach-colored ones! or to bear the inventory of thy shirts, as, one for superfluity, and another for use! But that the tennis-court-keeper knows better than I; for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there; as thou hast not done a great while, because the rest of thy low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland: and God knows, whether those that bawl out the ruins of thy linen shall inherit his kingdom: but the midwives say the children are not in the fault; whereupon the world increases, and kindreds are mightily strengthened.
Shall I tell thee one thing, Poins?
It shall serve among wits of no higher breeding than thine.
Marry, I tell thee, it is not meet that I should be sad, now my father is sick: albeit I could tell to thee, as to one it pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend, I could be sad, and sad indeed too.
By this hand, thou thinkest me as far in the devil's book as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency: let the end try the man. But I tell thee, my heart bleeds inwardly that my father is so sick: and keeping such vile company as thou art hath in reason taken from me all ostentation of sorrow.
What wouldst thou think of me, if I should weep?
It would be every man's thought; and thou art a blessed fellow to think as every man thinks: never a man's thought in the world keeps the road-way better than thine: every man would think me an hypocrite indeed. And what accites your most worshipful thought to think so?
And to thee.
And the boy that I gave Falstaff: a' had him from me Christian; and look, if the fat villain have not transformed him ape. 
And yours, most noble Bardolph!
Has not the boy profited?
Instruct us, boy; what dream, boy?
A crown's worth of good interpretation: there 'tis, boy.
And how doth thy master, Bardolph?
I do allow this wen to be as familiar with me as my dog; and he holds his place; for look you how he writes.
Nay, they will be kin to us, or they will fetch it from Japhet. But to the letter.
Peace!
That's to make him eat twenty of his words. But do you use me thus, Ned? must I marry your sister?
Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us. Is your master here in London?
Where sups he? doth the old boar feed in the old frank?
What company?
Sup any women with him?
What pagan may that be?
Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull. Shall we steal upon them, Ned, at supper?
Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to your master that I am yet come to town: there's for your silence.
Fare you well; go. This Doll Tearsheet should be some road.
How might we see Falstaff bestow himself to-night in his true colours, and not ourselves be seen?
From a God to a bull? a heavy descension! it was Jove's case. From a prince to a prentice? a low transformation! that shall be mine; for in every thing the purpose must weigh the folly. Follow me, Ned.
Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off?
Look, whether the withered elder hath not his poll clawed like a parrot.
Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction!  what says the almanac to that?
Why, thou globe of sinful continents,  what a life dost thou lead!
Very true, sir; and I come to draw you out by the ears.
You whoreson candle-mine, you, how vilely did you speak of me even now be- fore this honest, virtuous, civil gentlewoman!
Yea, and you knew me, as you did when you ran away by Gad's-hill: you knew I was at your back, and spoke it on purpose to try my patience.
I shall drive you then to confess the wilful abuse; and then I know how to handle you.
Not to dispraise me, and call me pantler and bread-chipper and I know not what?
See now, whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us? is she of the wicked? is thine hostess here of the wicked? or is thy boy of the wicked? or honest Bardolph, whose zeal burns in his nose, of the wicked?
For the women?
You, gentlewoman,--
Peto, how now! what news?
By heaven, Poins, I feel me much to blame, So idly to profane the precious time, When tempest of commotion, like the south Borne with black vapor, doth begin to melt And drop upon our bare unarmed heads. Give me my sword and cloak. Falstaff, good night.
Who saw the Duke of Clarence?
How now! rain within doors, and none abroad How doth the king?
Heard he the good news yet? Tell it him.
If he be sick with joy, he 'll recover  without physic.
No; I will sit and watch here by the king. Why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow, Being so troublesome a bedfellow? O polish'd perturbation! golden care! That keep'st the ports of slumber open wide To many a watchful night! sleep with it now! Yet not so sound and half so deeply sweet As he whose brow with homely biggen bound Snores out the watch of night. O majesty! When thou dost pinch thy bearer, thou dost sit Like a rich armor worn in heat of day, That scalds with safety. By his gates of breath There lies a downy feather which stirs not: Did he suspire, that light and weightless down Perforce must move. My gracious lord! my father! This sleep is sound indeed; this is a sleep That from this golden rigol hath divorced So many English kings. Thy due from me Is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood, Which nature, love, and filial tenderness, Shall, O dear father, pay thee plenteously: My due from thee is this imperial crown, Which, as immediate from thy place and blood, Derives itself to me. Lo, here it sits, Which God shall guard: and put the world's whole strength
Into one giant arm, it shall not force
This lineal honor from me: this from thee
Will I to mine leave, as 'tis left to me. [Exit.  
I never thought to hear you speak again.
O, pardon me, my liege! but for my tears, The moist impediments unto my speech, I had forestall'd this dear and deep rebuke Ere you with grief had spoke and I had heard The course of it so far. There is your crown; And He that wears the crown immortally Long guard it yours! If I affect it more Than as your honor and as your renown, Let me no more from this obedience rise, Which my most inward true and duteous spirit Teacheth, this prostrate and exterior bending. God witness with me, when I here came in, And found no course of breath within your majesty, How cold it struck my heart!   If I do feign, O, let me in my present wildness die And never live to show the incredulous world The noble change that I have purposed! Coming to look on you, thinking you dead, And dead almost, my liege, to think you were, I spake unto this crown as having sense, And thus upbraided it: 'The care on thee depending Hath fed upon the body of my father; Therefore, thou best of gold art worst of gold: Other, less fine in carat, is more precious, Preserving life in medicine potable; But thou, most fine, most honor'd, most renown'd, Hast eat thy bearer up.' Thus, my most royal liege, Accusing it, I put it on my head, To try with it, as with an enemy That had before my face murder'd my father, The quarrel of a true inheritor. But if it did infect my blood with joy, Or swell my thoughts to any strain of pride; If any rebel or vain spirit of mine Did with the least affection of a welcome Give entertainment to the might of it, Let God for ever keep it from my head And make me as the poorest vassal is That doth with awe and terror kneel to it!
My gracious liege, You won it, wore it, kept it, gave it me; Then plain and right must my possession be: Which I with more than with a common pain 'Gainst all the world will rightfully maintain. 
My Lord of Warwick!
