Master Fang, have you entered the action?
Where's your yeoman? Is't a lusty yeoman? will a' stand to't?
O Lord, ay! good Master Snare.
Yea, good Master Snare; I have entered him and all.
Alas the day! take heed of him; he stabbed me in mine own house, and that most beastly: in good faith, he cares not what mischief he does, if his weapon be out: he will foin like any devil; he will spare neither man, woman, nor child.
No, nor I neither: I'll be at your elbow.
I am undone by his going; I warrant you, he's an infinitive thing upon my score. Good Master Fang, hold him sure: good Master Snare, let him not 'scape. A' comes continuantly to Pie-corner--saving your manhoods --to buy a saddle; and he is indited to dinner to the Lubber's-head in Lumbert street, to Master Smooth's the silkman: I pray ye, since my exion is entered and my case so openly known to the world, let him be brought in to his answer. A hundred mark is a long one for a poor lone woman to bear: and I have borne, and borne, and borne, and have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fubbed off, from this day to that day, that it is a shame to be thought on. There is no honesty in such dealing; unless a woman should be made an ass and a beast, to bear every knave's wrong. Yonder he comes; and that arrant malmsey- nose knave, Bardolph, with him. Do your offices, do your offices: Master Fang and Master Snare, do me, do me, do me your offices.
Throw me in the channel!  I'll throw thee in the channel. Wilt thou? wilt thou? thou bastardly rogue!  Murder, murder! Ah, thou honey-suckle villain! wilt thou kill God's officers and the king's? Ah, thou honey-seed rogue! thou art a honey-seed, a man-queller, and a woman-queller.
Good people, bring a rescue or two. Thou wo't, wo't thou? thou wo't, wo't ta? do, do, thou rogue! do, thou hemp-seed!
Good my lord, be good to me. I beseech you, stand to me.
O my most worshipful lord, an't please your grace, I am a poor widow of Eastcheap, and he is arrested at my suit.
It is more than for some, my lord; it is for all, all I have. He hath eaten me out of house and home; he hath put all my substance into that fat belly of his: but I will have some of it out again, or I will ride thee o' nights like the mare.
Marry, if thou wert an honest man, thyself and the money too. Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet, sitting in my Dolphin-chamber, at the round table, by a seacoal fire, upon Wednesday in Wheeson week, when the prince broke thy head for liking his father to a singing-man of Windsor, thou didst swear to me then, as I was washing thy wound, to marry me and make me my lady thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech, the butcher's wife, come in then and call me gossip Quickly? coming in to borrow a mess of vinegar; telling us she had a good dish of prawns; whereby thou didst desire to eat some; whereby I told thee they were ill for a green wound?   And didst thou not, when she was gone down stairs, desire me to be no more so familiarity with such poor people; saying that ere long they would call me madam? And didst thou not kiss me and bid me fetch thee thirty shillings?   I put thee now to thy book-oath: deny it, if thou canst.
Yea, in truth, my lord.
Faith, you said so before.
By this heavenly ground I tread on, I must be fain to pawn both my plate and the tapestry of my dining-chambers.
Pray thee, Sir John, let it be but twenty nobles: i' faith, I am loath to pawn my plate, so God save me, la!
Well, you shall have it, though I pawn my gown. I hope you'll come to supper. You'll pay me all together?
Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper?
I' faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality: your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire; and your color, I warrant you, is as red as any rose, in good truth, la! But, i' faith, you have drunk too much canaries; and that's a marvellous searching wine, and it perfumes the blood ere one can say 'What's this?' How do you now?
Better than I was: hem!
Why, that 's well said; a good heart's worth gold. Lo, here comes Sir John.
Sick of a calm; yea, good faith.
You muddy rascal, is that all the comfort you give me?
I make them! gluttony and diseases make them: I make them not.
Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.
Hang yourself, you muddy conger, hang yourself!
By my troth, this is the old fashion; you two never meet but you fall to some discord:  you are both, i' good truth, as rheumatic as two dry toasts; you cannot one bear with another's confirmities.   What the good-year! one must bear, and that must be you: you are the weaker vessel, as they say, the emptier vessel.
Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogshead? there's a whole merchant's  venture of Bourdeaux stuff in him; you have not seen a hulk better stuffed in the hold. Come, I'll be friends with thee, Jack: thou art going to the wars; and whether I shall ever see thee again or no, there is nobody cares.
Hang him, swaggering rascal! let him not come hither: it is the foul-mouthed'st rogue in England.
If he swagger, let him not come here: no, by my faith; I must live among my neighbors: I 'll no swaggerers: I am in good name and fame with the very best: shut the door; there comes no swaggerers here: I have not lived all this while, to have swaggering now: shut the door, I pray you.
Pray ye, pacify yourself, Sir John: there comes no swaggerers here.
Tilly-fally, Sir John, ne'er tell me: your ancient swaggerer comes not in my doors. I was before Master Tisick, the debuty t'other day; and, as he said to me, 'twas no longer ago than Wednesday last. 'I' good faith, neighbor Quickly,' says he; Master Dunbe, our minister, was by then; 'neighbor Quickly,' says he, 'receive those that are civil; for' said he, 'you are in an ill name:' now a' said so, I can tell whereupon: 'for,' says he, 'you are an honest woman, and well thought on; therefore take heed what guests you receive: receive,' says he, 'no swaggering companions.' There comes none here: you would bless you to hear what he said: no, I'll no swaggerers.
Cheater, call you him?   I will bar no honest man my house, nor no cheater: but I do not love swaggering, by my troth; I am the worse, when one says swagger: feel, masters, how I shake; look you, I warrant you.
So you do, hostess.
Do I? yea, in very truth, do I, an 'twere an aspen leaf: I cannot abide swaggerers.
Come, I'll drink no proofs nor no bullets: I'll drink no more than will do me good, for no man's pleasure, I.
Charge me! I scorn you, companion. What! you poor, base, rascally, cheating, lack-linen mate! Away, you mouldy rogue, away! I am meat for your master.
Away, you cut-purse rascal! you filthy bung, away! by this wine, I 'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps, an you play the saucy cuttle with me. Away, you bottle-ale rascal! you basket-hilt stale juggler, you! Since when, I pray you, sir?   God's light, with two points on your shoulder? much!
No, Good Captain Pistol; not here, sweet captain.
Captain! thou abominable damned cheater, art thou not ashamed to be called captain? An captains were of my mind, they would truncheon you out, for taking their names upon you before you have earned them. You a captain! you slave, for what? for tearing a poor whore's ruff in a bawdy-house? He a captain! hang him, rogue! he lives upon mouldy stewed prunes and dried cakes. A captain! God's light, these villains will make the word as odious as the word 'occupy;' which was an excellent good word before it was ill sorted: therefore captains had need look to't.
Good Captain Peesel, be quiet; 'tis very late, i' faith: I beseek you now, aggravate your choler.
By my troth, captain, these are very bitter words.
O' my word, captain, there's none such here. What the good-year! do you think I would deny her? For God's sake, be quiet.
For God's sake, thrust him down stairs: I cannot endure such a fustian rascal.
Here's goodly stuff toward!
I pray thee, Jack, I pray thee, do not draw.
Here's a goodly tumult! I'll forswear  keeping house, afore I'll be in these tirrits and frights. So; murder, I warrant now. Alas, alas! put up your naked weapons, put up your naked weapons.
I pray thee, Jack, be quiet; the rascal's gone. Ah, you whoreson little valiant villain, you!
Are you not hurt i' the groin? methought  a' made a shrewd thrust at your belly.
Ah, you sweet little rogue, you! alas, poor ape, how thou sweatestl come, let me wipe thy face; come on, you whoreson chops: ah, rogue! i' faith, I love thee: thou art as valorous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the Nine Worthies: ah, villain!
Do, an thou darest for thy heart: an thou dost, I 'll canvass thee between a pair of sheets.
I' faith, and thou followedst him like a church. Thou whoreson little tidy Bartholomew  boar-pig, when wilt thou leave fighting o' days and foining o' nights, and begin to patch up thine old body for heaven?
Sirrah, what humour's the prince of?
They say Poins has a good wit.
Why does the prince love him so, then ?
By my troth, I kiss thee with a most constant heart.
I love thee better than I love e'er a scurvy young boy of them all.
By my troth, thou'lt set me a-weeping, an thou sayest so: prove that ever I dress myself handsome till thy return: well, harken at the end.
O, the Lord preserve thy good grace! by my troth, welcome to London. Now, the Lord bless that sweet face of thine! O Jesu, are you come from Wales?
How, you fat fool!   I scorn you.
God's blessing of your good heart! and so she is, by my troth.
No, I warrant you.
All victuallers do so: what's a joint of mutton or two in a whole Lent?
What says your grace?
Who knocks so loud at door?   Look to the door there, Francis.
I cannot speak; if my heart be not ready to burst,--well, sweet Jack, have a care of thyself.
Well, fare thee well: I have known thee these twenty nine years, come peascodtime;  but an honester and truer-hearted man, --well, fare thee well.
What's the matter?
O, run, Doll, run; run, good Doll: come. come, Doll? [Exeunt. 
No, thou arrant knave; I would to God that I might die, that I might have thee hanged: thou hast drawn my shoulder out of joint.
Nut-hook, nut-hook, you lie. Come on; I'll tell thee what, thou damned tripe  visaged rascal, an the child I now go with do miscarry, thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother, thou paper-faced villain.
O the Lord, that Sir John were come! he would make this a bloody day to somebody. But I pray God the fruit of her womb miscarry!
I'll tell you what, you thin man in a censer, I will have you as soundly swinged for this,--you blue-bottle rogue, you filthy famished  correctioner, if you be not swinged, I 'll forswear half-kirtles.
O God, that right should thus over  come might!   Well, of sufferance comes ease,
Come, you rogue, come; bring me to a justice.
Ay, come, you starved blood-hound.
Goodman death, goodman bones!
Thou atomy, thou!
Come, you thin thing; come, you rascal.
