Come on, come on, come on, sir; give me your hand, sir, give me your hand, sir: an early stirrer, by the rood! And how doth my good cousin Silence?
And how doth my cousin, your bedfellow?  and your fairest daughter and mine, my god-daughter Ellen?
By yea and nay, sir, I dare say my cousin William is become a good scholar: he is at Oxford still, is he not?
A' must, then, to the inns o' court shortly. I was once of Clement's Inn, where I think they will talk of mad Shallow yet.
By the mass, I was called any thing; and I would have done any thing indeed too, and roundly too. There was I, and little John Doit of Staffordshire, and black George Barnes, and Francis Pickbone, and Will Squele, a Cotswold man; you had not four such swinge-bucklers in all the inns o' court again: and I may say to you, we knew where the bona-robas were and had the best of them all at commandment. Then was Jack Falstaff, now Sir John, a boy, and page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk.
The same Sir John, the very same. I see him break Skogan's head at the court-gate, when a' was a crack not thus high: and the very same day did I fight with one Sampson Stockfish, a fruiterer, behind Gray's Inn. Jesu, Jesu, the mad days that I have spent! and to see how many of my old acquaintance are dead!
Certain, 'tis certain; very sure, very sure: death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all; all shall die. How a good yoke of bullocks  at Stamford fair?
Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?
Jesu, Jesu, dead! a' drew   a good bow; and dead! a' shot a fine shoot: John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on his head. Dead! a' would have clapped i' the clout at twelve score; and carried you a forehand shaft a fourteen and fourteen and a half, that it would have done a man's heart good to see. How a score of ewes now?
And is old Double dead? 
I am Robert Shallow, sir: a poor esquire  of this county, and one of the king's justices  of the peace: what is your good pleasure with me?
He greets me well, sir. I knew him a good backsword man. How doth the good knight? may I ask how my lady his wife doth ?
It is well said, in faith, sir; and it is well said indeed too. Better accommodated! it is good; yea, indeed, is it: good phrases are surely, and ever were, very commendable. Accomodated! it comes of 'accommodo:' very good; a good phrase.
It is very just. Look, here comes good Sir John. Give me your good hand, give me your worship's good hand: by my troth, you like well and bear your years very well: welcome, good Sir John.
No, Sir John; it is my cousin Silence, in commission with me.
Marry, have we, sir. Will you sit?
Where's the roll? where's the roll? where's the roll?   Let me see, let me see, let me see. So, so, so, so, so, so, so: yea, marry, sir: Ralph Mouldy!   Let them appear as I call; let them do so, let them do so. Let me see; where is Mouldy?
What think you, Sir John? a good-limbed  fellow; young, strong, and of good friends.
Ha, ha, ha! most excellent, i' faith! things that are mouldy lack use: very singular good! in faith, well said, Sir John, very well said.
Peace, fellow, peace; stand aside: know you where you are?   For the other, Sir John: let me see: Simon Shadow!
Where's Shadow?
Do you like him, Sir John?
Thomas Wart!
Shall I prick him down, Sir John?
Ha, ha, ha! you can do it, sir; you can do it: I commend you well. Francis Feeble!
Shall I prick him, sir?
Peter Bullcalf o' the green!
Here is two more called than your number; you must have but four here, sir: and so, I pray you, go in with me to dinner.
O, Sir John, do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in Saint George's field?
Ha! 'twas a merry night. And is Jane Nightwork alive?
She never could away with me.
By the mass, I could anger her to the heart. She was then a bona-roba. Doth she hold her own well?
Nay, she must be old; she cannot choose but be old; certain she's old; and had Robin Nightwork by old Nightwork before I came to Clement's Inn.
Ha, cousin Silence, that thou hadst seen that that this knight and I have seen! Ha, Sir John, said I well?
That we have, that we have, that we have; in faith, Sir John, we have: our watchword was 'Hem boys!' Come, let's to dinner; come, let's to dinner: Jesus, the days that we have seenl Come. come.
Four of which you please.
Come, Sir John, which four will you have?
Marry, then, Mouldy, Bullcalf, Feeble and Shadow.
Sir John, Sir John, do not yourself wrong: they are your likeliest men, and I would have you served with the best.
He is not his craft's master; he doth not do it right. I remember at Mile-end Green, when I lay at Clement's Inn,--I was then Sir Dagonet in Arthur's show,-there was a little quiver fellow, and a' would manage you his piece thus; and a' would about and about, and come you in and come you in: 'rah, tah, tah,' would a' say; 'bounce' would a' say; and away again would a' go, and again would a' come: I shall ne'er see such a fellow,
Sir John, the Lord bless youl God prosper your affairs! God send us peace! At your return visit our house; let our old acquaintance be renewed: peradventure I will with ye to the court.
Go to; I have spoke at a word. God keep you.
By cock and pie, sir, you shall not away to-night. What, Davy, I say!
I will not excuse you; you shall not be excused: excuses shall not be admitted; there is no excuse shall serve; you shall not be excused. Why, Davy!
Davy, Davy, Davy, Davy, let me see, Davy; let me see, Davy; let me see: yea, marry, William cook, bid him come hither. Sir John, you shall not be excused.
With red wheat, Davy. But for William  cook: are there no young pigeons?
Let it be cast and paid. Sir John, you shall not be excused.
A' shall answer it. Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of short-legged hens, a joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.
Yea, Davy. I will use him well: a friend i' the court is better than a penny in purse. Use his men well, Davy; for they are arrant knaves, and will backbite.
Well conceited, Davy: about thy business, Davy.
There is many complaints, Davy, against that Visor: that Visor is an arrant knave, on my knowledge.
Go to; I say he shall have no wrong. Look about, Davy. Where are you, Sir John? Come, come, come, off with your boots. Give me your hand, Master Bardolph.
I thank thee with all my heart, kind Master Bardolph: and welcome, my tall fellow Come, Sir John.
Sir John!
Nay, you shall see my orchard, where, in an arbour, we will eat a last year's pippin of my own graffing, with a dish of caraways, and so forth: come, cousin Silence: and then to bed.
Barren, barren, barren; beggars all, beggars all, Sir John: marry, good air. Spread,Davy; spread, Davy: well said, Davy.
A good varlet, a good varlet, a very good varlet, Sir John: by the mass, I have drunk too much sack at supper: a good varlet. Now sit down, now sit down: come, cousin.
Give Master Bardolph some wine,
Davy.
Be merry, Master Bardolph; and, my little soldier there, be merry.
Davy!
Honest Bardolph, welcome: if thou wantest any thing, and wilt not call, beshrew thy heart. Welcome, my little tiny thief to Master Bardolph, and to all the cavaleros about London.
By the mass, you 'll crack a quart to  gether, ha! will you not, Master Bardolph?
By God's liggens, I thank thee: the knave will stick by thee, I can assure thee that. A' will not out; he is true bred.
Why, there spoke a king. Lack nothing:  be merry. Look who's at the door there, ho! who knocks? [Exit Davy. 
Honest gentleman, I know not yourbreeding.
Give me pardon, sir: if, sir, you come with news from the court, I take it there's but two ways, either to utter them, or to conceal  them. I am, sir, under the king, in some authority.
Under King Harry.
Harry the Fourth.
It doth so.
It doth so.
It doth, it doth, it doth.
It is best, certain.
'Tis so, indeed.
Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech  you to let me have home with me.
I cannot well perceive how, unless you should give me your doublet and stuff me out with straw. I beseech you, good Sir John, let me have five hundred of my thousand.
A color that I fear you will die in, Sir John.
