Why should he, then, protect our sovereign, He being of age to govern of himself? Cousin of Somerset, join you with me, And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk, We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector, Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
Thy cruelty in execution Upon offenders hath exceeded law And left thee to the mercy of the law.
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor. And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds: She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs, She'll gallop far enough to her destruction. Re-enter GLOUCESTER. 
True, madam, none at all: what call you this? Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close, And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us. Stafford, take her to thee. We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming. All, away! [Exeunt guard with Jourdain, Southwell, &c. 
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York, To be the post, in hope of his reward.
Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold. A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent, Under the countenance and confederacy Of Lady Eleanor, the protector's wife, The ringleader and head of all this rout, Have practised dangerously against your state, Dealing with witches and with conjurers: Whom we have apprehended in the fact; Raising up wicked spirits from under ground, Demanding of King Henry's life and death, And other of your highness' privy-council; As more at large your grace shall understand.
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown, Which time will bring to light in smooth Duke Humphrey.
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day: Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
What answer makes your grace to the rebels' supplication?
My gracious lord, retire to Killingworth, Until a power be raised to put them down.
Then linger not, my lord; away, take horse.
Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee: Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king Unto the commons whom thou hast misled; And here pronounce free pardon to them all That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
What, is he fled?   Go some, and follow him; And he that brings his head unto the king Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward. Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean To reconcile you all unto the king. [Exeunt. 
Health and glad tidings to your majesty!
I will, my lord; and doubt not so to deal As all things shall redound unto your good.
York, if thou meanest well, I greet thee well.
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege, To know the reason of these arms in peace; Or why thou, being a subject as I am, Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn, Should raise so great a power without his leave, Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
That is too much presumption on thy part: But if thy arms be to no other end, The king hath yielded unto thy demand: The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
York, I commend this kind submission: We twain will go into his highness' tent.
So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss He were created knight for his good service.
