Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
No; I pray thee speak in sober judgement.
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me truly how thou likest her. 
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on.
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be otherwise.
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
That I love her, I feel.
And never could maintain his part but in the force of his will. 
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,
You know me well; I am he.
How know you he loves her?
Not sad, my lord.
Neither, my lord.
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I were but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love have all his rites.
O, ay: stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits. I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
'Tis true, indeed; so your daughter says: 'Shall I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest your daughter told us of.
That.
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses; 'O sweet Benedick! God give me patience!'
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse.
And she is exceeding wise.
Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.
He is a very proper man. 
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
And I take him to be valiant.
Never tell him, my lord: let her wear it out with good counsel.
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never trust my expectation.
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o' mornings; what should that bode?
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis-balls.
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Nay, but his jesting spirit; which is now crept into a lute-string and now governed by stops.
Nay, but I know who loves him.
Yes, and his ill conditions; and, in despite of all, dies for him.
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their parts with Beatrice; and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet.
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
Who, Hero?
Disloyal?
May this be so?
If I see any thing to-night why I should not marry her to-morrow, in the congregation, where I should wed, here will I shame her.
No.
Know you any, Hero?
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not knowing what they do!
Now, signior, what news?
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth.
We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy wit?
Never any did so, though very many have been beside their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrels; draw, to pleasure us.
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat, thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was broke cross.
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
I' faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's head and a capon; the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find a woodcock too?
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
All, all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the garden.
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the married man'?
In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the love of Beatrice. 
Most sincerely.
He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man.
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
Rightly reasoned, and in his own division: and, by my troth, there's one meaning well suited.
Is this the monument of Leonato?
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single life, to make thee a double-dealer; which, out of question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look exceedingly narrowly to thee.
