I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon comes this night to Messina.
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath bestowed much honor on a young Florentine called Claudio.
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
Did he break out into tears?
A kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces truer than those that are so washed. How much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
What is he that you ask for, niece?
Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her: they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit between them.
You will never run mad, niece.
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
Her mother hath many times told me so.
Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. Let me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled to the prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
Please it your grace lead on?
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son? hath he provided this music?
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
No, no; we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it. Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you mercy, friend; go you with me, and I will use your skill. Good cousin, have a care this busy time. [Exeunt. 
Was not Count John here at supper?
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face,
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room. Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA, and others, masked.  
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes: his grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it.
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say, she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing.
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, they would talk themselves mad. 
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just seven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have all things answer my mind.
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings.
No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it but that she loves him with an enraged affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard my daughter tell you how.
I would have sworn it had, my lord; especially against Benedick.
No; and swears she never will: that's her torment.
This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper: my daughter tells us all.
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet?
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence; railed at herself, that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her: 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I should flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I love him, I should.'
She doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will do a desperate outrage to herself: it is very true.
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
Were it good, think you?
If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace: if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
Nay, that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first.
My lord, will you walk? dinner is ready.
Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
What would you with me, honest neighbor?
Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
What is it, my good friends?
Neighbors, you are tedious.
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
I would fain know what you have to say.
Indeed, neighbor, he comes too short of you.
I must leave you.
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
Drink some wine ere you go: fare you well.
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
Come, Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain form of marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards.
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
I dare make his answer, none.
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
