I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering how honour would become such a person, that it was no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than now in first seeing he had proved himself a man.
Then his good report should have been my son; I therein would have found issue. Hear me profess sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love alike and none less dear than thine and my good Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
Sweet madam.
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than look upon his schoolmaster.
Why, I pray you?
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but disease our better mirth.
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for the love of Juno, let's go.
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous approbation.
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath another, his wife another; and, I think, there's one at home for you.
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for 't.
On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home with the oaken garland.
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but Aufidius got off.
True! pow, wow.
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm: there will be large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall stand for his place. He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:
