Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.   Is't a verdict?
One word, good citizens.
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.   What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they would yield us but the superfluity, while it were wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely; but they think we are too dear: the leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an inventory to particularize their abundance; our sufferance is a gain to them. Let us revenge this with our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
Very well; and could be content to give him good report for 't, but that he pays himself with being proud.
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be content to say it was for his country, he did it to please his mother, and to be partly proud; which he is, even to the altitude of his virtue.
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations; he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition. What shouts are these?   The other side o' the city is risen: why stay we prating here? to the Capitol!
Soft! who comes here?
Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved the people.
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
Our business is not unknown to the senate; they have had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do, which now we'll show 'em in deeds.   They say poor suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we have strong arms too.
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
Care for us!   True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act established against the rich, and provide more piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear us.
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an't please you, deliver.
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
We may, sir, if we will.
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a power that we have no power to do; for if he show us his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful, were to make a monster of the multitude; of the which we being members, should bring ourselves to be monstrous members.
And to make us no better thought of, a little help will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
We have been called so of many; not that our heads are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald, but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south, and their consent of one direct way should be at once to all the points o' the compass.
Think you so?   Which way do you judge my wit would fly?
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's   will; 'tis   strongly wedged up in a block-head, but if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
Why that way?
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I say, if he would incline to the people, there was never a worthier man.
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
Your own desert!
How not your own desire?
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to gain by you.
The price is to ask it kindly.
You shall ha't, worthy sir.
But this is something odd.
And 'twere to give again,but 'tis no matter. Re-enter two other Citizens. 
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have been a rod to her friends; you have not indeed loved the common people.
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give you our voices heartily.
You have received many wounds for your country.
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice.
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people!
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
And so did I.
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet it was against our will.
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home. I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished him.
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
