Wine, wine, wine! What service is here! I think our fellows are asleep. Enter a second Servingman. 
Where's Cotus? my master calls for him. Cotus! Enter CORIOLANUS. 
What would you have, friend? whence are you? Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
Whence are you, sir?   Has the porter his eyes in his head, that he gives entrance to such companions? Pray, get you out.
Away! get you away.
Are you so brave?   I'll have you talked with anon.
What fellow's that?
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him out o' the house: prithee, call my master to him.
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid the house.
What are you?
A   marvellous poor one.
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other station; here's no place for you; pray you, avoid: come.
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a strange guest he has here.
And I shall.
Where dwellest thou?
Under the canopy?
Where's that?
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is! Then thou dwellest with daws too?
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for disturbing the lords within.
Here's a strange alteration!
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel: and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report of him.
What an arm he has! he turned me about with his finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought, I cannot tell how to term it.
He had so; looking as it were would I were hanged, but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest man i' the world.
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot one.
Serv. Who, my master?
Nay, it's no matter for that.
Worth six on him.
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the greater soldier.
Serv. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that: for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
Ay,and for an assault too.
O slaves, I can tell you news. news, you rascals!
What, what, what? let's partake.
I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as lieve be a condemned man.
Wherefore? wherefore?
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general, Caius Marcius.
Why do you say 'thwack our general'?
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always good enough for him.
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth on 't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched him like a carbonado.
An he had been cannibally given, he might have broiled and eaten him too.
But, more of thy news?
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' the table; no question asked him by any of the senators, but they stand bald before him: our general himself makes a mistress of him; sanctifies himself with's hand and turns up the whites o' the eye to his discourse. But the bottom of the news is, our general is cut i' the middle and but one half of what he was yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says, and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
And he's as like to do 't as any man I can imagine.
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
Directitude! what's that?
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again, and the man in blood, they will out of their burrows, like conies after rain, and revel all with him.
But when goes this forward?
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they wipe their lips.
Why, then we shall have a stirring world again. This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy; mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of cuckolds.
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
Reason; because they then less need one another. The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
