I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank you.
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore the sadness is without limit.
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
I wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art, born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and claw no man in his humor. 
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace, and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do my liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and seek not to alter me. 
I make all use of it, for I use it only. Who comes here? What news, Borachio? 
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on? What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks he?
A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow: if I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the greater that I am subdued. Would the cook were of my mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done?
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it. The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.
Are not you Signior Benedick?
Signior, you are very near my brother in his love: he is enamored on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may do the part of an honest man in it.
I heard him swear his affection.
Come, let us to the banquet.
It is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato.
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage?
Show me briefly how.
I remember.
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
What proof shall I make of that?
Only to despite them, I will endeavor any thing.
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a thousand ducats.
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
My lord and brother, God save you!
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
If it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear; for what I would speak of concerns him.
Means your lordship to be married to-morrow?
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
You may think I love you not: let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I think he holds you well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage, surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed.
I came hither to tell you; and, circumstances shortened, for she has been too long a talking of, the lady is disloyal.
Even she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I could say she were worse: think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall see her chamberwindow entered, even the night before her wedding-day: if you love her then, to-morrow wed her; but it would better fit your honor to change your mind.
If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you know: if you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
I will disparage her no farther till you are my witness: bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when you have seen the sequel.
