Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your daughter.
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this what you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady; for you are like an honorable father.
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month; and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.
What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to Leonato's?
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
That she is worthy, I know.
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty.
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt prove a notable argument.
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.'
Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.
Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime, good Signior Bendick, repair to Leonato's: commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made great preparation.
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
Lady, will you walk about with your friend?
With me in your company?
And when please you to say so?
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
Speak low, if you speak love.
Now, signior, where's the count? did you see him?
To be whipped! What's his fault?
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is in the stealer.
I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to the owner.
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you.
Look, here she comes.
None, but to desire your good company.
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick.
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?
How then? sick?
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won: I have broke with her father, and his good will obtained: name the day of marriage, and God give thee joy!
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
Will you have me, lady?
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes you; for, out of question, you were born in a merry hour.
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing: but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labors; which is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection the one with the other. I would fain have it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if you three will but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noble strain, of approved valor and confirmed honesty. I will teach you how to humor your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I, with your two helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this, Cupid is no longer an archer: his glory shall be ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
Come, shall we hear this music?
Ha, no, no, faith; thou singest well enough for a shift.
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee, get us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
Do so: farewell. Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
How, how, I pray you? You amaze me: I would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she will not discover it.
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an excellent sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion, she is virtuous.
In every thing but in loving Benedick.
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear what a' will say. 
She doth well: if she should make tender of her love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise; for either he avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christian-like fear.
And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter: let it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
Let there be the same net spread for her; and that must your daughter and her gentlewoman carry. The sport will be, when they hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go I toward Arragon.
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at him; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his tongue speaks.
Hang him, truant! there's no true drop of blood in him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad, he wants money.
Draw it.
What! sigh for the toothache?
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as, a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him out by that?
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Yea, or to paint himself? for the which, I hear what they say of him.
Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him: conclude, conclude he is in love.
That would I know too: I warrant one that knows him not.
She shall be buried with her face upwards.
For my life, to break with him about Beatrice.
Good den, brother.
In private?
What's the matter?
You know he does.
I will not think it.
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with thee to disgrace her.
Welcome, signior: you are almost come to part almost a fray.
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick, or angry?
By this light, he changes more and more: I think he be angry indeed.
I'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise:' 'Certain,' said she,'a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning; there's a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she, an hour, together, transshape thy particular virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou wast the properest man in Italy.
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly: the old man's daughter told us all.
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the sensible Benedick's head?
And hath challenged thee.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit. 
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and be sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled?
How now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio one!
Officers, what offence have these men done?
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to your answer? this learned constable is too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
