Faith, walking the backe lanes through the Gardens I chanc'd to cast mine eye up to the Jewes counting-house where I saw some bags of mony, and in the night I clamber'd up with my hooks, and as I was taking my choyce, I heard a rumbling in the house; so I tooke onely this, and runne my way: but here's the Jews man.
I did.
I did.
I think so,  and  but  yet I cannot tell, for at the reading of the letter, he look'd like a man of another world.
That such a base slave as he should be saluted by such a tall man as I am, from such a beautifull dame as you.
Not a wise word, only gave me a nod, as who shold say, Is it even so; and so I left him, being driven to a non-
plus at the critical aspect of my terrible countenance.
Upon  mine  my  owne free hold within  fortie  40    foot  feet  of the gallowes, conning his neck-verse I take it, looking of a Fryars Execution, whom I saluted with an old hempen proverb, Hodie  tibi, cras mihi , and so I left him to the mercy of 
the Hangman: but the Exercise being done, see where he comes.
This is the Gentleman you writ to.
I did Sir, and from this Gentlewoman, who as my selfe, and the rest of the family, stand or fall at your service.
And  ye  you  did but know how she loves you, Sir.
And you can have it, Sir, and if you please.
And is't not possible to find it out?
Put in two hundred at least.
Tell him you will confesse.
Let me alone, I'le use him in his kinde.
Yes.
At reading of the letter, he star'd and stamp'd, and var:#aside.] ~,#  var:#beard] sterd Q#  turnd aside  .  ,  I tooke him by the  beard  sterd  , and look'd upon him thus; var:#it;] ~,#  told him he were best to send it  ;  ,  then he hug'd and imbrac'd me.
Then like a Jew he laugh'd and jeer'd, and told me he lov'd me for your sake, and said what a faithfull servant you had bin.
To conclude, he gave me ten crownes.
Write for  five hundred  500  Crownes.
I warrant your worship shall hav't.
You'd make a rich Poet, Sir. I am gone.
Jew, I must ha more gold.
No; but  three hundred  300  will not serve his turne.
No Sir; and therefore I must have  five hundred  500  more.
Oh good words, Sir, and send it you, weere best se; there's his letter.
I, and the rest too, or else
Oh, if that be all, I can picke ope your locks.
I know enough, and therfore talke not to me of your var:#-house:] ~,#  Counting  -house:  ,  the gold, or know Jew it is in my power to hang thee.
Here's many words but no crownes; the crownes.
Speake, shall I have 'um, Sir?
I know it, Sir.
Soone enough to your cost, Sir:
Oh bravely done.
This shall with me unto the Governor.
Sirra, you must give my mistris your posey.
Foh, me thinkes they stinke like a Holly-Hoke.
There's two crownes for thee, play.
Me thinkes he fingers very well.
How swift he runnes.
His man?
A  masty  nasty  musty  slave he is  .  ;   var:#is.] ~;#  var:#masty] nasty Dd2-C, K, Ri; musty B# 
Farewell Fidler: One  letter more  more letter  to the Jew.
Let me alone to urge it now I know the meaning.
Who, besides the slaughter of these Gentlemen, poyson'd his owne daughter and the Nuns, strangled a Fryar, and I know not what mischiefe beside.
