Csar and Lepidus Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
From Silvius, sir.
I cannot hope Csar and Antony shall well greet together: His wife that's dead did trespasses to Csar; His brother warr'd upon him; although, I think, Not moved by Antony.
Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have made this treaty.You and I have known, sir.
We have, sir.
And you by land.
Nor what I have done by water.
And you by land.
All men's faces are true, what- some'er their hands are.
No slander; they steal hearts.
For my part, I am sorry it is turned to a drinking. Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
Pray ye, sir?
Then is Csar and he for ever knit together.
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.
Who would not have his wife so ?
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard ? I have a health for you.
Come, let's away.
Pompey, a word.
Forsake thy seat, I do beseech thee, captain, And hear me speak a word.
If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear me, Rise from thy stool.
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
Wilt thou be lord of all the world ?
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world ? That's twice.
But entertain it, And, though thou think me poor, I am the man Will give thee all the world.
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup. Thou art, if thou darest be, the earthly Jove: Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips, Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
These three world-sharers, these competitors, Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable; And, when we are put off, fall to their throats: All there is thine.
For this, I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more. Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd, Shall never find it more.
Enobarbus, welcome!
Why ?
The third part, then, is drunk: would it were all, That it might go on wheels!
Come.
No, to my cabin. These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what! Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
Ho! Noble captain, come.
