O noble emperor, do not fight by sea; Trust not to rotten planks: do you misdoubt This sword and these my wounds ? Let the Egyptians And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we Have used to conquer, standing on the earth, And fighting foot to foot.
By Hercules, I think I am i' the right.
You keep by land The legions and the horse whole, do you not ?
While he was yet in Rome, His power went out in such distractions as Beguiled all spies.
They say, one Taurus.
Brother, good night: to-morrow is the day.
It will determine one way: fare you well. Heard you of nothing strange about the streets ?
Nothing. What news ?
Belike 'tis but a rumor. Good night to you.
Well, sir, good night.
Soldiers, have careful watch.
And you. Good night, good night.
Here we: and if to-morrow Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up.
'Tis a brave army, And full of purpose.
Peace ! what noise ?
List, list!
Hark!
Music i' the air.
Under the earth.
It signs well, does it not ?
No.
Peace, I say ! What should this mean ?
'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony loved, Now leaves him.
Walk; let's see if other watchmen Do hear what we do?
How now, masters!
Ay; is't not strange?
Do you hear, masters ? do you  hear?
Follow the noise so far as we  have quarter; Let's see how it will give off.
A thousand, sir, Early though't be, have on their riveted trim, And at the port expect you. Enter Captains and Soldiers. 
The gods make this a happy day to Antony !
Hadst thou done so, The kings that have revolted, and the soldier That has this morning left thee, would have still Follow'd thy heels.
Who ! One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus, He shall not hear thee; or from Csar's camp Say 'I am none of thine.'
Sir, He is with Csar.
Most certain.
Enobarbus, Antony Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with His bounty overplus: the messenger Came on my guard; and at thy tent is now Unloading of his mules.
Mock not, Enobarbus. I tell you true: best you safed the bringer Out of the host; I must attend mine office, Or would have done't myself. Your emperor Continues still a Jove.
If we be not relieved within this hour, We must return to the court of guard: the night Is shiny; and they say we shall embattle By the second hour i' the morn.
This last day was A shrewd one to's.
What man is this?
Stand close, and list him.
Enobarbus!
Peace! Hark further.
Let's speak To him.
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks May concern Csar.
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his Was never yet for sleep.
Go we to him.
Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
Hear you, sir ?
The hand of death hath raught him. Hark! the drums Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him To the court of guard; he is of note: our hour Is fully out.
Come on, then; He may recover yet.
