Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
Ay: But soon that war had end, and the time's state Made friends of them, joining their force 'gainst Csar; Whose better issue in the war, from Italy, Upon the first encounter, drave them.
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
Labienus This is stiff news- hath, with his Parthian force, Extended Asia from Euphrates; His conquering banner shook from Syria To Lydia and to Ionia; Whilst
O, my lord !
At your noble pleasure. 
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
In Sicyon: Her length of sickness, with what else more serious Importeth thee to know, this bears.
Thy biddings have been done; and every hour, Most noble Csar, shalt thou have report How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea; And it appears he is beloved of those That only have fear'd Csar: to the ports The discontents repair, and men's reports Give him much wrong'd.
Csar, I bring thee word, Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates, Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound With keels of every kind: many hot inroads They make in Italy; the borders maritime Lack blood to think on 't, and flush youth revolt: No vessel can peep forth, but 'tis as soon Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more Than could his war resisted.
Madam, madam,
First, madam, he is well.
Good madam, hear me.
Will't please you hear me ?
Madam, he's well.
And friends with Csar.
Csar and he are greater friends than ever.
But yet, madam
Free, madam! no; I made no such report: He's bound unto Octavia.
For the best turn i' the bed.
Madam, he's married to Octavia.
Good madam, patience.
Gracious madam, I that do bring the news made not the match.
He's married, madam.
Nay, then I'll run. What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.
I have done my duty.
He's married, madam.
Should I lie, madam?
I crave your highness' pardon. n=98
Take no offence that I would not offend you: To punish me for what you make me do. Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
Most gracious majesty,
Ay, dread queen.
Madam, in Rome; I look'd her in the face, and saw her led Between her brother and Mark Antony.
She is not, madam.
Madam, I heard her speak; she is low-voiced.
She creeps: Her motion and her station are as one; She shows a body rather than a life, A statue than a breather.
Or I have no observance.
Madam, She was a widow,
And I do think she's thirty.
Round even to faultiness.
Brown, madam: and her forehead As low as she would wish it.
The news is true, my lord; he is descried; Csar has taken Toryne.
The emperor calls Canidius.
Antony Is come into the field.
