Give me leave, Csar,
Thou hast a sister by the mother's side, Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony Is now a widower.
To hold you in perpetual amity, To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts With an unslipping knot, take Antony Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims No worse a husband than the best of men; Whose virtue and whose general graces speak That which none else can utter. By this marriage, All little jealousies, which now seem great, And all great fears, which now import their dangers, Would then be nothing: truths would be tales, Where now half tales be truths: her love to both Would, each to other and all loves to both, Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke; For 'tis a studied, not a present thought, By duty ruminated.
Good Enobarbus!
There she appeared indeed; or my reporter devised well for her.
O, rare for Antony!
Rare Egyptian!
Royal wench! She made great Csar lay his sword to bed: He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
Let us go. Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here.
Sir, Mark Antony Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
What, are the brothers parted ?
'Tis a noble Lepidus.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony !
What's Antony ? The god of Jupiter.
O Antony ! O thou Arabian bird !
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
Both he loves.
Good fortune, worthy soldier; and farewell.
He has a cloud in 's face.
Why, Enobarbus, When Antony found Julius Csar dead, He cried almost to roaring; and he wept When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
Who, queasy with his insolence Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
Who does he accuse ?
Sir, this should be answer'd.
Welcome, lady.
Csar? I shall.
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far: Csar himself has work, and our oppression Exceeds what we expected. Alarums.  Enter ANTONY and SCARUS wounded. 
And strange it is, That nature must compel us to lament Our most persisted deeds.
A rarer spirit never Did steer humanity: but you, gods, will give us Some faults to make us men. Csar is touch'd.
