 There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
Grates me: the sum.
How, my love !
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space. Kingdoms are clay: our dungy earth alike Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life Is to do thus; when such a mutual pair And such a twain can do't, in which I bind, On pain of punishment, the world to weet We stand up peerless.
But stirr'd by Cleopatra. Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours, Let's not confound the time with conference harsh: There's not a minute of our lives should stretch Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight ?
Fie, wrangling queen! Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh, To weep; whose every passion fully strives To make itself, in thee, fair and admired! No messenger, but thine; and all alone To-night we'll wander through the streets and note The qualities of people. Come, my queen; Last night you did desire it: speak not to us.
Against my brother Lucius ?
Well, what worst ?
When it concerns the fool or coward. On: Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus: Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death, I hear him as he flatter'd.
Antony, thou wouldst say,
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue: Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome; Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase; and taunt my faults With such full license as both truth and malice Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds, When our quick minds lie still; and our ills told us Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there !
Let him appear. These strong Egyptian fetters I must break, Or lose myself in dotage. What are you ?
Where died she ?
Forbear me. There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it: What our contempt doth often hurl from us, We wish it ours again; the present pleasure, By revolution lowering, does become The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone; The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on. I must from this enchanting queen break off: Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know, My idleness doth hatch. How now! Enobarbus! Re-enter ENOBARBUS. 
I must with haste from hence.
I must be gone.
She is cunning past man's thought.
Would I had never seen her.
Fulvia is dead.
Fulvia is dead.
Dead.
The business she hath broached in the state Cannot endure my absence.
No more light answers. Let our officers Have notice what we purpose. I shall break The cause of our expedience to the queen, And get her leave to part. For not alone The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches, Do strongly speak to us; but the letters too Of many our contriving friends in Rome Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius Hath given the dare to Csar, and commands The empire of the sea: our slippery people, Whose love is never link'd to the deserver Till his deserts are past, begin to throw Pompey the Great and all his dignities Upon his son; who, high in name and power, Higher than both in blood and life, stands up For the main soldier: whose quality, going on, The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding, Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life, And not a serpent's poison. Say, our pleasure, To such whose place is under us, requires Our quick remove from hence.
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose,
Now, my dearest queen,
What's the matter?
The gods best know,
Cleopatra,
Most sweet queen,
How now, lady
Hear me, queen: The strong necessity of time commands Our services awhile; but my full heart Remains in use with you. Our Italy Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome: Equality of two domestic powers Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength, Are newly grown to love: the condemn'd Pompey, Rich in his father's honor, creeps apace, Into the hearts of such as have not thrived Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten; And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge By any desperate change: my more particular, And that which most with you should safe my going, Is Fulvia's death.
She's dead, my queen: Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read The garboils she awaked; at the last, best: See when and where she died.
Quarrel no more, but be prepared to know The purposes I bear; which are, or cease, As you shall give the advice. By the fire That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence Thy soldier, servant; making peace or war As thou affect'st.
My precious queen, forbear; And give true evidence to his love, which stands An honorable trial.
You'll heat my blood: no more.
Now, by my sword,
I'll leave you, lady.
But that your royalty Holds idleness your subject, I should take you For idleness itself.
Let us go. Come; Our separation so abides, and flies, That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me, And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
If we compose well here, to Parthia: Hark, Ventidius.
'Tis spoken well. Were we before our armies, and to fight. I should do thus.
Thank you.
Sit, sir.
I learn, you take things ill which are not so, Or being, concern you not.
My being in Egypt, Csar, What was't to you ?
How intend you, practised ?
You do mistake your business; my brother never Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it; And have my learning from some true reports, That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours; And make the wars alike against my stomach, Having alike your cause ? Of this my letters Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel, As matter whole you have not to make it with, It must not be with this.
Not so, not so; I know you could not lack, I am certain on't, Very necessity of this thought, that I, Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought, Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife, I would you had her spirit in such another: The third o' the world is yours; which with a snaffle You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Csar, Made out of her impatience, which not wanted Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant Did you too much disquiet: for that you must But say, I could not help it.
Sir, He fell upon me ere admitted: then Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want Of what I was i' the morning: but next day I told him of myself; which was as much As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow Be nothing of our strife; if we contend, Out of our question wipe him.
No, Lepidus, let him speak: The honor is sacred which he talks on now, Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Csar; The article of my oath.
Neglected, rather; And then when poison'd hours had bound me up >From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may, I'll play the penitent to you: but mine honesty Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia, To have me out of Egypt, made wars here; For which myself, the ignorant motive, do So far ask pardon as befits mine honor To stoop in such a case.
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
I am not married, Csar: let me hear Agrippa further speak.
Will Csar speak?
What power is in Agrippa, If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,' To make this good ?
May I never To this good purpose, that so fairly shows, Dream of impediment ! Let me have thy hand : Further this act of grace: and from this hour The heart of brothers govern in our loves And sway our great designs!
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey; For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me: I must thank him only, Lest my remembrance suffer ill report; At heel of that, defy him.
Where lies he?
What is his strength by land?
So is the fame. Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it: Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we The business we have talk'd of.
Let us, Lepidus, Not lack your company.
The world and my great office will sometimes Divide me from your bosom.
Good night, sir. My Octavia, Read not my blemishes in the world's report: I have not kept my square; but that to come Shall all be done by the rule. Good night, dear lady. Good night, sir.
Now, sirrah; you do wish yourself in Egypt ?
If you can, your reason ?
Say to me, Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Csar's or mine ?
Speak this no more.
Get thee gone: Say to Ventidius I would speak with him: He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap, He hath spoken true : the very dice obey him; And in our sports my better cunning faints Under his chance : if we draw lots, he speeds; His cocks do win the battle still of mine, When it is all to nought; and his quails ever Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt: And though I make this marriage for my peace, I' the east my pleasure lies. Enter VENTIDIUS.  O, come, Ventidius, You must to Parthia: your commission's ready; Follow me, and receive't.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails; We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st How much we do o'er-count thee.
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh What it is worth embraced.
I have heard it, Pompey; And am well studied for a liberal thanks Which I do owe you.
The beds i' the east are soft; and thanks to you, That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither; For I have gain'd by 't.
That will I, Pompey.
You have heard much.
And fair words to them.
Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' the Nile By certain scales i' the pyramid; they know, By the height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth Or foison follow: the higher Nilus swells, The more it promises: as it ebbs, the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain, And shortly comes to harvest.
Ay, Lepidus.
They are so.
It is shaped, sir, like itself; and it is as broad as it hath breadth: it is just so high as it is, and moves with its own organs: it lives by that which nourisheth it; and the elements once out of it, it transmigrates.
Of it own color too.
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very epicure.
These quick-sands, Lepidus, Keep off them, for you sink.
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho ? Here is to Csar!
Be a child o' the time.
Come, let's all take hands, Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense In soft and delicate Lethe.
And shall, sir; give's your hand.
No further, sir.
Make me not offended In your distrust.
You shall not find, Though you be therein curious, the least cause For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you, And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends ! We will here part.
The April 's in her eyes: it is love's spring, And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can Her heart inform her tongue,-the swan's down-feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide, And neither way inclines.
Come, sir, come; I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love : Look, here I have you; thus I let you go, And give you to the gods.
Farewell!
Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that, That were excusable, that, and thousands more Of semblable import,but he hath waged New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read it To public ear: Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not But pay me terms of honor, cold and sickly He vented them; most narrow measure lent me: When the best hint was given him, he not took 't, Or did it from his teeth.
Gentle Octavia, Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honor, I lose myself: better I were not yours Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested, Yourself shall go between 's: the mean time, lady, I'll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste; So your desires are yours.
When it appears to you where this begins, Turn your displeasure that way; for our faults Can never be so equal, that your love Can equally move with them. Provide your going; Choose your own company, and command what cost Your heart has mind to.
Is it not strange, Canidius, That from Tarentum and Brundusium He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea, And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet ?
A good rebuke, Which might have well becomed the best of men, To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we Will fight with him by sea.
For that he dares us to't.
By sea, by sea.
I'll fight at sea.
Our overplus of shipping will we burn; And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium Beat the approaching Csar. But if we fail, We then can do't at land. Thy business ?
Can he be there in person ? 'tis impossible ; Strange that his power should be. Canidius, Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land, And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship: Away, my Thetis! How now, worthy soldier!
Well, well: away !
Set we our squadrons on yond side o' the hill, In eye of Csar's battle; from which place We may the number of the ships behold, And so proceed accordingly.
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't; It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither: I am so lated in the world, that I Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship Laden with gold; take that, divide it; fly, And make your peace with Csar.
I have fled myself; and have instructed cowards To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone; I have myself resolved upon a course Which has no need of you; be gone: My treasure's in the harbor, take it. O, I follow'd that I blush to look upon: My very hairs do mutiny; for the white Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them For fear and doting. Friends, be gone: you shall Have letters from me to some friends that will Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad, Nor make replies of loathness: take the hint Which my despair proclaims; let that be left Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway: I will possess you of that ship and treasure. Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now: Nay, do so; for, indeed, I have lost command, Therefore I pray you: I'll see you by and by. Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS; EROS following. 
No, no, no, no, no.
O fie, fie, fie!
Yes, my lord, yes; he at Philippi kept His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas I That the mad Brutus ended: he alone Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practice had In the brave squares of war: yet nowNo matter.
I have offended reputation, A most unnoble swerving.
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt ? See, How I convey my shame out of thine eyes By looking back what I have left behind 'Stroy'd in dishonor.
Egypt, thou knew'st too well My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings, And thou shouldst tow me after: o'er my spirit Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods Command me.
Now I must To the young man send humble treaties, dodge And palter in the shifts of lowness; who With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased, Making and marring fortunes. You did know How much you were my conqueror; and that My sword, made weak by my affection, would Obey it on all cause.
Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates All that is won and lost: give me a kiss; Even this repays me. We sent our schoolmaster; Is he come back ? Love, I am full of lead. Some wine, within there, and our viands! Fortune knows We scorn her most when most she offers blows.
Is that his answer ?
The queen shall then have courtesy, so she Will yield us up.
Let her know't. To the boy Csar send this grizzled head, And he will fill thy wishes to the brim With principalities.
To him again: tell him he wears the rose Of youth upon him; from which the world should note Something particular: his coin, ships, legions, May be a coward's; whose ministers would prevail Under the service of a child as soon As i' the command of Csar: I dare him therefore To lay his gay comparisons apart, And answer me declined, sword against sword, Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
Favors, by Jove that thunders! What art thou, fellow?
Approach, there ! Ah, you kite ! Now, gods and devils! Authority melts from  me: of late, when I cried 'Ho !' Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth, And cry 'Your will ?' Have you no ears ? I am Antony yet. Take hence this Jack, and whip him. 
Moon and stars! Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries That do acknowledge Csar, should I find them So saucy with the hand of she here,what's her name, Since she was Cleopatra ? Whip him, fellows, Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face, And whine aloud for mercy: take him hence.
Tug him away: being whipp'd, Bring him again: this Jack of Csar's shall Bear us an errand to him. You were half blasted ere I knew you: ha! Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome, Forborne the getting of a lawful race, And by a gem of women, to be abused By one that looks on feeders ?
You have been a boggler ever: But when we in our viciousness grow hard O misery on't !the wise gods seel our eyes; In our own filth drop our clear judgments; make us Adore our errors; laugh at's, while we strut To our confusion.
I found you as a morsel cold upon Dead Csar's trencher; nay, you were a fragment Of Cneius Pompey's; besides what hotter hours. Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have Luxuriously pick'd out: for, I am sure, Though you can guess what temperance should be, You know not what it is.
To let a fellow that will take rewards And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with My playfellow, your hand; this kingly seal And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar The horned herd! for I have savage cause; And to proclaim it civilly, were like A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank For being yare about him. Is he whipp'd ? 
Cried he ? and begg'd a' pardon ?
If that thy father live, let him repent Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry To follow Csar in his triumph, since Thou hast been whipp'd for following him: henceforth The white hand of a lady fever thee, Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Csar, Tell him thy entertainment: look, thou say He makes me angry with him; for he seems Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am, Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry; And at this time most easy 'tis to do't, When my good stars, that were my former guides, Have empty left their orbs, and shot their fires Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike My speech and what is done, tell him he has Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture, As he shall like, to quit me: urge it thou: Hence with thy stripes, begone!
Alack, our terrene moon Is now eclipsed; and it portends alone The fall of Antony!
To flatter Csar, would you mingle eyes With one that ties his points ?
Cold-hearted toward me ?
I am satisfied. Csar sits down in Alexandria; where I will oppose his fate. Our force by land Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy too Have knit again, and fleet, threatening most sea-like. Where hast thou been, my heart ? Dost thou hear, lady ? If from the field I shall return once more To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood; I and my sword will earn our chronicle: There's hope in't yet.
I will be   treble-sinew'd, hearted, breathed, And fight maliciously: for when mine hours Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth, And send to darkness all that stop me. Come, Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more; Let's mock the midnight bell.
We will yet do well.
Do so, we'll speak to them; and tonight I'll force The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen; There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight, I'll make death love me; for I will contend Even with his pestilent scythe.
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
Why should he not?
To-morrow, soldier, By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live, Or bathe my dying honor in the blood Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well ?
Well said; come on. Call forth my household servants: let's tonight  Be bounteous at our meal. Give me thy hand, Thou hast been rightly honest;so hast thou ; Thou,and   thou,and   thou :you   have served me well, And kings have been your fellows.
And thou art honest too. I wish I could be made so many men, And all of you clapp'd up together in An Antony, that I might do you service So good as you have done.
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night: Scant not my cups; and make as much of me As when mine empire was your fellow too, And suffer'd my command.
Tend me to-night; May be it is the period of your duty: Haply you shall not see me more; or if, A mangled shadow: perchance to-morrow You'll serve another master. I look on you As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends, I turn you not away; but, like a master Married to your good service, stay till death: Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more, And the gods yield you for't !
Ho, ho, ho! Now the witch take me, if I meant it thus! Grace grow where those drops fall ! My hearty friends, You take me in too dolorous a sense; For I spake to you for your comfort; did desire you To burn this night with torches: know, my hearts, I hope well of to-morrow; and will lead you Where rather I'll expect victorious life Than death and honor. Let's to supper, come, And drown consideration.
Eros ! mine armor, Eros!
No, my chuck. Eros, come; mine armor, Eros! Come, good fellow, put mine iron on: If fortune be not ours to-day, it is Because we brave her: come.
Ah, let be, let be! thou art The armorer of my heart: false, false; this, this.
Well, well; We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow ? Go put on thy defences.
Rarely, rarely: He that unbuckles this, till we do please To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm. Thou fumblest, Eros; and my queen's a squire More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love, That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st The royal occupation! thou shouldst see A workman in't. Good morrow to thee; welcome: Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge: To business that we love we rise betime, And go to't with delight.
'Tis well blown, lads: This morning, like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note, begins betimes. So, so; come, give me that: this way; well said. Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me: This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable And worthy shameful check it were, to stand On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight, Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu. Exeunt Antony, Eros, Captains, and Soldiers. 
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd To make me fight at land!
Who's gone this morning?
What say'st thou ?
Is he gone ?
Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it; Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him I will subscribegentle adieus and greetings; Say that I wish he never find more cause To change a master. O, my fortunes have Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.Enobarbus !
Thou bleed'st apace.
They do retire.
I will reward thee Once for thy spritely comfort, and ten-fold For thy good valor. Come thee on.
We have beat him to his camp: run one before, And let the queen know of our gests. Tomorrow, Before the sun shall see 's, we'll spill the blood That has to-day escaped. I thank you all; For doughty-handed are you, and have fought Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors. Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends, Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears Wash the congealment from your wounds, and kiss The honor'd gashes whole. Give me thy hand; Enter CLEOPATRA, attended.  To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts, Make her thanks bless thee. To Cleo. O thou day o' the world, Chain mine arm'd neck; leap thou, attire and all, Through proof of harness to my heart, and there Ride on the pants triumphing!
My nightingale, We have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man; Commend unto his lips thy favoring hand: Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day As if a god, in hate of mankind, had Destroy'd in such a shape.
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand: Through Alexandria make a jolly march; Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them: Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup together, And drink carouses to the next day's fate, Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters, With brazen din blast you the city's ear; Make mingle with our rattling tabourines; That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together, Applauding our approach.
Their preparation is to-day by sea; We please them not by land.
I would they 'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air; We'ld fight there too. But this it is; our foot Upon the hills adjoining to the city Shall stay with us: order for sea is given; They have put forth the haven . . . . Where their appointment we may best discover, And look on their endeavor.
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine does stand, I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word Straight, how 'tis like to go.
All is lost; This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me: My fleet hath yielded to the foe; and yonder They cast their caps up and carouse together Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore! 'tis thou Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly; For when I am revenged upon my charm, I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone. O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more: Fortune and Antony part here; even here Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets On blossoming Csar; and this pine is bark'd, That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am: O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm, Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home; Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end, Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose, Beguiled me to the very heart of loss. What, Eros, Eros! Enter CLEOPATRA.  Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving, And blemish Csar's triumph. Let him take thee. And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians: Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown For poor'st diminutives, for doits; and let Patient Octavia plough thy visage up With her prepared nails. 'Tis well thou'rt gone, If it be well to live; but better 'twere Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death Might have prevented many. Eros, ho ! The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me, Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' the moon; Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage: And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club, Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die: To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall Under this plot; she dies for't. Eros, ho! Exit. 
Eros, thou yet behold'st me ?
Sometimes we see a cloud that's dragonish; A vapor sometime like a bear or lion, A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock, A forked mountain, or blue promontory With trees upon't, that nod unto the world, And mock our eyes with air: thou hast seen these signs; They are black vesper's pageants.
That which is now a horse, even with a thought The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct, As water is in water.
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is Even such a body: here I am Antony: Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave. I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen, Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine; Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't A million more, now lost,she, Eros, has Pack'd cards with Csar, and false-play'd my glory Unto an enemy's triumph. Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us Ourselves to end ourselves. O, thy vile lady! She has robb'd me of my sword.
Hence, saucy eunuch; peace! She hath betray'd me and shall die the death.
Dead, then ?
Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done, And we must sleep. Does pay thy labor richly; go. Exit Mardian.  Off, pluck off: The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides ! Heart, once be stronger than thy continent, Crack thy frail case! Apace, Eros, apace. No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go; You have been nobly borne. From me awhile. Exit Eros.  I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now All length is torture: since the torch is out, Lie down, and stray no farther: now all labor Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles Itself with strength: seal then, and all is done. Eros !I come, my queen:Eros !Stay for me: Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand, And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze: Dido and her neas shall want troops, And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros! Re-enter EROS. 
Since Cleopatra died, I have lived in such dishonor, that the gods Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack The courage of a woman; less noble mind Than she which by her death our Csar tells 'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros, That, when the exigent should come, which now Is come indeed, when I should see behind me The inevitable prosecution of Disgrace and horror, that, on my command, Thou then wouldst kill me: do 't; the time is come: Thou strikest not me, 'tis Csar thou defeat'st. Put color in thy cheek.
Eros, Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down His corrigible neck, his face subdued To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat Of fortunate Csar, drawn before him, branded His baseness that ensued ?
Come, then; for with a wound I must be cured. Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn Most useful for thy country.
When I did make thee free, sworest thou not then To do this when I bade thee ? Do it at once; Or thy precedent services are all But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
Lo thee!
Then let it do at once The thing why thou hast drawn it.
'Tis said, man; and farewell.
Now, Eros.
Thrice-nobler than myself! Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros Have by their brave instruction got upon me A nobleness in record: but I will be A bridegroom in my death, and run into't As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros, Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus I learn'd of thee. How ! not dead ? not dead ? The guard, ho! O, dispatch me! Enter DERCETAS and Guard. 
I have done my work ill, friends: O, make an end Of what I have begun.
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
Art thou there, Diomed ? Draw thy sword, and give me Sufficing strokes for death.
When did she send thee ?
Where is she ?
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides; 'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome Which comes to punish us, and we punish it Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up: I have led you oft: carry me now, good friends, And have my thanks for all.
Peace! Not Csar's valor hath o'erthrown Antony, But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
I am dying, Egypt, dying; only I here importune death awhile, until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay upon thy lips.
O, quick, or I am gone.
I am dying, Egypt, dying: Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
One word, sweet queen: Of Csar seek your honor, with your safety. O!
Gentle, hear me: None about Csar trust but Proculeius.
The miserable change now at my end Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts In feeding them with those my former fortunes Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world, The noblest; and do now not basely die Not cowardly put off my helmet to My countryman,a Roman by a Roman Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going; I can no more.
