I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. More, I prithee, more.
I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to sing. Come, more; another stanzo: call you 'em stanzos?
Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me nothing. Will you sing?
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you; but that they call compliment is like the encounter of two dog-apes, and when a man thanks me heartily, methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; and you that will not, hold your tongues.
And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is too disputable for my company: I think of as many matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no boast of them.
I'll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in despite of my invention.
'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle. I'll go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll rail against all the first-born of Egypt.
An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.
I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had as lief have been myself alone.
God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.
I pray you, mar no more trees with writing love-songs in their barks.
You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them out of rings?
You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and we two will rail against our mistress the world and all our misery.
The worst fault you have is to be in love.
By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found you.
I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good Signior Love.
O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove in a thatched house!
And will you, being a man of your breeding, be married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to church, and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is: this fellow will but join you together as they join wainscot; then one of you will prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.
I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with thee.
I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical, nor the courtier's, which is proud, nor the soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's, which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor the lover's, which is all these: but it is a melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples, extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's contemplation of my travels, in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness.
Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman conqueror; and it would do well to set the deer's horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have you no song, forester, for this purpose?
There is, sure, another flood toward, and these couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.
Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.
How seventh cause?   Good my lord, like this fellow.
But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the quarrel on the seventh cause?
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at any thing and yet a fool.
