England ne'er had a king until his time. Virtue he had, deserving to command: His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams: His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings; His sparkling eyes, replete with wrathful fire, More dazzled and drove back his enemies Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces. What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech: He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
The church! where is it? Had not churchmen pray'd, His thread of life had not so soon decay'd: None do you like but an effeminate prince, Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh, And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st Except it be to pray against thy foes.
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up? If Henry were recall'd to life again, These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats. Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
I'll go to the tower with all the haste I can, To view the artillery and munition; And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
I am come to survey the Tower this day: Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance. Where be these warders, that they wait not here? Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine? There's none protector of the realm but I. Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize: Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms?
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear? Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
Faint-hearted Woodville, prizest him 'fore me? Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate, Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook? Thou art no friend to God or to the king: Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be shut out?
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator, Thou that contrivedst to murder our dear lord; Thou that givest whores indulgence to sin: I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat, If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back: Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
What! am I dared and bearded to my face? Draw, men, for all this privileged place; Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard; I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly: Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal's hat: In spite of pope or dignities of church, Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
Winchester goose, I cry, a rope! a rope! Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay? Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array. Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
Peace, mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs: Here's Beaufort, that regards not God nor king, Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law: But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
Presumptuous priest! this place commands my patience, Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me. Think not, although in writing I preferr'd The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes, That therefore I have forged, or am not able Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen: No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness, Thy lewd, pestiferous and dissentious pranks, As very infants prattle of thy pride. Thou art a most pernicious usurer, Froward by nature, enemy to peace; Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems A man of thy profession and degree; And for thy treachery, what's more manifest? In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life, As well at London bridge as at the Tower. Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted, The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
As good! Thou bastard of my grandfather!
Am I not protector, saucy priest?
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps And useth it to patronage his theft.
Thou art reverent Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
You of my household, leave this peevish broil And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
Stay, stay, I say! And if you love me, as you say you do, Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
Compassion on the king commands me stoop; Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest Should ever get that privilege of me.
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.-- See here, my friends and loving countrymen, This token serveth for a flag of truce Betwixt ourselves and all our followers: So help me God. as I dissemble not!
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: for, sweet prince, An if your grace mark every circumstance, You have great reason to do Richard right; Especially for those occasions At Eltham Place I told your majesty.
Now will it best avail your majesty To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France: The presence of a king engenders love Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends, As it disanimates his enemies.
Your ships already are in readiness.
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
Now, governor of Paris, take your oath, That you elect no other king but him; Esteem none friends but such as are his friends, And none your foes but such as shall pretend Malicious practices against his state: This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
To say the truth, this fact was infamous And ill beseeming any common man, Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.
What means his grace, that he hath changed his style? No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!' Hath he forgot he is his sovereign? Or doth this churlish superscription Pretend some alteration in good will? What's here 'I have, upon especial cause, Moved with compassion of my country's wreck, Together with the pitiful complaints Of such as your oppression feeds upon, Forsaken your pernicious faction And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.' O monstrous treachery! can this be so, That in alliance, amity and oaths, There should be found such false dissembling guile?
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife And perish ye, with your audacious prate! Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed With this immodest clamorous outrage To trouble and disturb the king and us? And you, my lords, methinks you do not well To bear with their perverse objections; Much less to take occasion from their mouths To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves: Let me persuade you take a better course.
I have, my lord: and their intent is this: They humbly sue unto your excellence To have a godly peace concluded of Between the realms of England and of France.
Well, my good lord; and as the only means To stop effusion of our Christian blood And stablish quietness on every side.
Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect And surer bind this knot of amity, The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles, A man of great authority in France, Proffers his only daughter to your grace In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
And for the proffer of my lord your master, I have inform'd his highness so at large As liking of the lady's virtuous gifts, Her beauty and the value of her dower, He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
So should I give consent to flatter sin. You know, my lord, your highness is betroth'd Unto another lady of esteem: How shall we then dispense with that contract, And not deface your honour with reproach?
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that? Her father is no better than an earl, Although in glorious titles he excel.
And so the Earl of Armagnac may do, Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
