He was a king bless'd of the King of kings. Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day So dreadful will not be as was his sight. The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought: The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector And lookest to command the prince and realm. Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe, More than God or religious churchmen may.
What! wherein Talbot overcame? is't so?
Each hath his place and function to attend: I am left out; for me nothing remains. But long I will not be Jack out of office: The king from Eltham I intend to steal And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
How now, ambitious Humphrey! what means this?
I do, thou most usurping proditor, And not protector of the king or realm.
Nay, stand thou back; I will not budge a foot: This be Damascus, be thou cursed Cain, To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
Do what thou darest; I beard thee to thy face.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens, One that still motions war and never peace, O'ercharging your free purses with large fines, That seeks to overthrow religion, Because he is protector of the realm, And would have armour here out of the Tower, To crown himself king and suppress the prince.
Gloucester, we will meet; to thy cost, be sure: Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head; For I intend to have it ere long.
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines, With written pamphlets studiously devised, Humphrey of Gloucester?   If thou canst accuse, Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge, Do it without invention, suddenly; As I with sudden and extemporal speech Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe To give me hearing what I shall reply. If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse, As he will have me, how am I so poor? Or how haps it I seek not to advance Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling? And for dissension, who preferreth peace More than I do?--except I be provoked. No, my good lords, it is not that offends; It is not that that hath incensed the duke: It is, because no one should sway but he; No one but he should be about the king; And that engenders thunder in his breast And makes him roar these accusations forth. But he shall know I am as good--
Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray, But one imperious in another's throne?
And am not I a prelate of the church?
Unreverent Gloster!
Rome shall remedy this.
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee; Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
So help me God, as I intend it not!
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
God save King Henry, of that name the sixth!
Stay, my lord legate: you shall first receive The sum of money which I promised Should be deliver'd to his holiness For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
Or be inferior to the proudest peer. Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive That, neither in birth or for authority, The bishop will be overborne by thee: I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee, Or sack this country with a mutiny. Exeunt. 
