Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence? Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth; Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance: The truth appears so naked on my side That any purblind eye may find it out.
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak, In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts: Let him that is a true-born gentleman And stands upon the honour of his birth, If he suppose that I have pleaded truth, From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
And I.
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses; For pale they look with fear, as witnessing The truth on our side.
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth; Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand, I scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
He bears him on the place's privilege, Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
My father was attached, not attainted, Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor; And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset, Were growing time once ripen'd to my will. For your partaker Pole and you yourself I'll note you in my book of memory, To scourge you for this apprehension: Look to it well and say you are well warn'd.
And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose, As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate, Will I for ever and my faction wear, Until it wither with me to my grave. Or flourish to the height of my degree.
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you, That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
Thanks, gentle sir. Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say This quarrel will drink blood another day.
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used, Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
First, lean thine aged back aganist mine arm; And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease. This day, in argument upon a case, Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me; Among which terms he used his lavish tongue And did upbraid me with my, father's death: Which obloquy set bars before my tongue, Else with the like I had requited him. Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake, In honour of a true Plantagenet And for alliance sake, declare the cause My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
Discover more at large what cause that was, For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me: But yet, methinks, my father's execution Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
O, uncle, would some part of my young years Might but redeem the passage of your age!
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul! In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage And like a hermit overpass'd thy days. Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast; And what I do imagine let that rest. Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself Will see his burial better than his life. Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer, Choked with ambition of the meaner sort: And for these wrongs, those bitter injuries, Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house, I doubt not but with honour to redress; And therefore haste I to the parliament, Either to be restored to my blood, Or make my ill the advantage of my good. Exit. 
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should; Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?' Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
Thy humble servant vows obedience And humble service till the point of death.
And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall! And as my duty springs, so perish they That grudge one thought against your majesty!
