I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
Herein I see thou lovest me not with the full weight that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father, had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou hadst been still with me, I could have taught my love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou, if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously tempered as mine is to thee.
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy father perforce, I will render thee again in affection; by mine honor, I will; and when I break that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal: but love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst in honor come off again.
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce makes honest, and those that she makes honest she makes very ill-favoredly.
No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she not by Fortune fall into the fire? That Nature hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now, wit! whither wander you?
How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge?
My father's love is enough to honor him: enough! speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation one of these days.
By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau. 
Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.
All the better; we shall be the more marketable. Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?
Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.
I could match this beginning with an old tale.
Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your years. You have seen cruel proof of this man's strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or knew yourself with your judgement, the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow by the leg.
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who should down.
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden paths, our very petticoats will catch them.
O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of service, let us talk in good earnest: is it possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him, for my father hated his father dearly; yet I hate not Orlando.
Why should I not? doth he not deserve well? 
I pray you, bear with me; I cannot go no further.
How now! back, friends! Shepherd, go off a little. Go with him, sirrah.
That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck. Change you color?
O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to meet; but mountains may be removed with earthquakes and so encounter.
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that, out of all hooping!
It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler's heels and your heart both in an instant.
You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To say ay and no to these particulars is more than to answer in a catechism.
It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the propositions of a lover: but take a taste of my finding him, and relish it with good observance. I found him under a tree, like a dropped acorn.
There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.
Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets unseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.
I would sing my song without a burden: thou bringest me out of tune.
You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?
Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man.
As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
Something browner than Judas's: marry, his kisses are Judas's own children.
An excellent color: your chestnut was ever the only color.
He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously; the very ice of chastity is in them.
Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do think him as concave as a covered goblet or a worm-eaten nut.
Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.
'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is no stronger than the word of a tapster; they are both the confirmer of false reckonings. He attends here in the forest on the duke your father.
O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses, speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides. Who comes here?
It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a Rosalind of a better leer than you.
Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate: we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your head, and show the world what the bird hath done to her own nest.
Or rather, bottomless, that as fast as you pour affection in, it runs out.
I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to sleep. Look, who comes here.
Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw homewards. Good sir, go with us.
