As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns, and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part, he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more proerly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses are bred better; for, besides that they are fair with their feeding, they are taught their manage, and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the which his animals on his dunghills are as much bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I think is within me, begins to mutiny against this servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I know no wise remedy how to avoid it. 
Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up.
Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them? What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should come to such penury?
Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle condition of blood, you should so know me. The courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that you are the firsborn; but the same tradition takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is nearer to his reverence.
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice a villain that says such a father begot villains. Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.
I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My father charged you in his will to give me good education: you have trained me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or give me the poor allottery my father left me by testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I come but in, as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts; wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one dead that was willing to be so: I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only in the world I fill up a place, which may be better supplied when I have made it empty.
Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
An you mean to mock me after, you should not have mocked me before: but come your ways.
Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little. If this uncouth forest yield any thing savage, I will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers. For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at the arm's end: I will here be with thee presently; and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labor. Well said! thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly. Yet thou liest in the bleak air: come, I will bear thee to some shelter; and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner, if there live any thing in this desert. Cheerly, good Adam!
And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you too for your society.
I pray you, mar no moe of my verses with reading them ill-favoredly.
There was no thought of pleasing you when she was christened.
Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from whence you have studied your questions.
I will chide no breather in the world but myself, against whom I know most faults.
'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue. I am weary of you.
He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you shall see him.
I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur Melancholy.
You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock in the forest.
And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that been as proper?
Your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling.
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid to the charge of women?
I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me your remedy.
Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.
Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me where it is.
My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
I take some joy to say you are, because I would be talking of her.
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind, for, I protest, her frown might kill me.
A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say 'Wit, whither wilt?'
And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I will be with thee again.
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind: so adieu.
Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow: thither will I invite the duke and all's contented followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look you, here comes my Rosalind.
They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
