So 'tis reported, sir.
His love and wisdom, Approved so to your majesty, may plead For amplest credence.
It well may serve A nursery to our gentry, who are sick For breathing and exploit.
It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord, Young Bertram.
You are loved, sir: They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
'Tis our hope, sir, After well enter'd soldiers, to return And find your grace in health.
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
Our hearts receive your warnings.
O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
O, 'tis brave wars!
There's honour in the theft.
I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
Farewell, captain.
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
We shall, noble captain.
And grant it.
No better, if you please.
Fair one, I think not so.
Holy seems the quarrel Upon your grace's part; black and fearful On the opposer.
Good, my lord, The reasons of our state I cannot yield, But like a common and an outward man, That the great figure of a council frames By self-unable motion: therefore dare not Say what I think of it, since I have found Myself in my incertain grounds to fail As often as I guess'd.
But I am sure the younger of our nature, That surfeit on their ease, will day by day Come here for physic.
We'll take your offer kindly.
Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his way.
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no more in your respect.
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge, without any malice, but to speak of him as my kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner of no one good quality worthy your lordship's entertainment.
It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
None better than to let him fetch off his drum, which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship present at his examination: if he do not, for the promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the intelligence in his power against you, and that with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never trust my judgement in any thing.
O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he says he has a stratagem for't: when your lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be melted, if you give him not John Drum's entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed. Here he comes.
O, for the love of laughter, hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch off his drum in any hand.
A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
That was not to be blamed in the command of the service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could not have prevented, if he had been there to command.
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a strange fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems to undertake this business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do and dares better be damned than to do't?
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it is, that he will steal himself into a man's favour and for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but when you find him out, you have him ever after.
None in the world; but return with an invention and clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we have almost embossed  him: you shall see his fall to-night; for indeed he is not for your lordship's respect.
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu: when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this very night.
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
As't please your lordship; I'll leave you.
But you say she's honest.
With all my heart, my lord.
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner. When you sally upon him, speak what terrible language you will: though you understand it not yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to understand him, unless some one among us whom we must produce for an interpreter.
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
He must think us some band of strangers i' the adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we speak one to another; so we seem to know, is to know straight our purpose: choughs' language, gabble enough, and good enough. As for you, interpreter, you must seem very politic.  But couch, ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep, and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue was guilty of.
Is it possible he should know what he is, and be that he is?
We cannot afford you so.
'Twould not do.
Hardly serve.
How deep?
Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
You shall hear one anon.
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother, We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled Till we do hear from them.
A' will betray us all unto ourselves: Inform on that.
Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
You have not given him his mother's letter?
I have delivered it an hour since: there is something in't that stings his nature; for on the reading it he changed almost into another man.
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his bounty to sing happiness to him I will tell you a thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the grave of it.
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition.
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves. what things are we!
Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course of all treasons, we still see them reveal themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends, so he that in this action contrives against his own nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his company to-night?
Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see his company anatomized, that he might take a measure of his his own judgements, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.
We will not meddle with him till he come; for his presence must be the whip of the other.
In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
I hear there is an overture of peace.
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel higher, or return again into France?
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether of his council.
Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal of his act.
Sir, his wife some two months since fled from his house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing, the tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and now she sings in heaven.
How is this justified?
The stronger part of it by her own letters, which makes her story true, even to the point of her death: her death itself, which could not be her office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by the rector of the place.
Hath the count all this intelligence?
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from point, to the full arming of the verity.
I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in tears!   The great dignity that his valour hath here acquired for him shall at home be encountered with a shame as ample.
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our faults whipped them not; and our crimes would despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues. How now! where's your master?
They shall be no more than needful there, if they were more than they can commend. 
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness. Here's his lordship now. How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
If the business be of any difficulty, and this morning your departure hence, it requires haste of your lordship.
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night, poor gallant knave.
I have told your lordship already the stocks carry him.   But to answer you as you would be understood; he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes to be a friar, from the time of his remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i' the stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you are, you must have the patience to hear it,
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa.
Boblibindo chicurmurco.
You're deceived, my lord:  this is Monsieur Parolles, the gallant militarist,-- that was his own phrase, --that had the whole theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in the chape of his dagger.
I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword clean, nor believe he can have every thing in him by wearing his apparel neatly.
He's very near the truth in this.
Nothing, but let him have thanks.   Demand of him  my condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
Nay, look not so upon me; we shall hear of your lordship anon.
Excellently.
This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold linguist and the armipotent soldier.
I begin to love him for this.
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the rarity redeems him.
Why does he ask him of me?
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
God save you, noble captain.
Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?   I am for France.
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet you writ to Diana in behalf  of the Count Rousillon? an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you: but fare you well.
