You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you, sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather than lack it where there is such abundance.
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose practices he hath persecuted time with hope, and finds no other advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time.
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
A fistula, my lord.
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead, excessive grief the enemy to the living.
How understand we that?
He cannot want the best That shall attend his love.
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of your father.
Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon. I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy, And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
Good faith, across: but, my good lord, 'tis thus; Will you be cured of your infirmity?
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine That's able to breathe life into a stone, Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay, To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand And write to her a love-line.
Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived, If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour, If seriously I may convey my thoughts In this my light deliverance, I have spoke With one that, in her sex, her years, profession, Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more That I dare blame my weakness: will you see her, For that is her demand, and know her business? That done, laugh well at me.
Nay, I'll fit you, And not be all day neither.
Nay, come your ways. 
Nay, come your ways; This is his majesty; say your mind to him: A traitor you do look like; but such traitors His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle, That dare leave two together; fare you well.
They say miracles are past; and we have our philosophical persons, to make modern  and familiar, things supernatural and causeless. Hence it is that we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge, when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear.
To be relinquished of the artists,--
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
That gave him out incurable,--
Not to be helped,--
Uncertain life, and sure death.
I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
Why, your dolphin is not lustier: 'fore me, I speak in respect--
Very hand of heaven.
In a most weak-- and debile minister, great power, great transcendence: which should, indeed, give us a further use to be made than alone the recovery of the king, as to be-- [pausing] generally thankful. 
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's able to lead her a coranto.
'Fore God, I think so.
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture, My mouth no more were broken than these boys', And writ as little beard.
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life.
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine, I'd have them whipped; or I would send them to the Turk to make eunuchs of.
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her: sure, they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.
There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk wine; but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known thee already.
Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
Ay; is it not a language I speak?
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age cannot bring thee.
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from   believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care not: yet art thou good for nothing but taking up; and that thou'rt scarce worth.
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee well: thy casement I need not open, for I look through thee. Give me thy hand.
Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not bate thee a scruple.
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack o' the contrary.   If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage.   I have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge, that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor doing eternal: for doing I am past; as I will by thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news for you: you have a new mistress.
Who? God?
The devil it is that's thy master.  Why dost thou garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of thy sleeves? do other servants so?   Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose stands.   By mine honor, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat thee: methinks, thou art a general offence, and every man should beat thee: I think thou wast created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel out of a pomegranate: you are a vagabond and no true traveller:  you you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry.   You are not worth another word, else I'ld call you knave.  I leave you. 
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
You have it from his own deliverance.
Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
I have then sinned against his experience and transgressed against his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make us friends; I will pursue the amity.
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good workman, a very good tailor.
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten. God save you, captain.
You have made shift to run into't, boots and spurs and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer question for your residence.
And shall do so ever, though I took him at's prayers.   Fare you well, my lord; and believe this of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes.   Trust him not in matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of them tame, and know their natures.   Farewell, monsieur: I have spoken better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
Your distinction?
So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
No, no, no.
Who's that? a Frenchman?
What prince is that?
Hold thee, there's my purse; I give thee not this to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of; serve him still.
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I tell thee so before, because I would not fall out with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well looked to, without any tricks.
A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and that my lord your son was upon his return home, I moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority of them both, his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did first propose: his highness hath promised me to do it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath conceived against your son, there is no fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such intelligence hath seldom failed.
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might safely be admitted.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I thank my God it holds yet.
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery of honour; so belike is that.
Let us go see your son, I pray you:  I long to talk with the young noble soldier.
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves thrive long under her?   There's a quart d'ecu for you: let the justices make you and fortune friends: I am for other business.
You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't; save your word.
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion! give me your hand. How does your drum?
Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once both the office of God and the devil?   One brings thee in grace and the other brings thee out. king's coming; I know by his trumpets. Sirrah,  inquire further after me; I had talk of you last night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall eat; go to, follow.
This I must say, But first I beg my pardon, the young lord Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady Offence of mighty note; but to himself The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife Whose beauty did astonish the survey Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive, Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve Humbly call'd mistress.
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
He looks well on 't.
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name Must be digested, give a favour from you To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter, That she may quickly come. And every hair that 's on't, Helen, that's dead, Was a sweet creature: such a ring as this, The last that e'er I took her leave at court, I saw upon her finger.
I am sure I saw her wear it.
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this: I'll none of him.
Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you are no husband for her.
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes off and on at pleasure.
Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon: Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so, I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee: Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
