How, halfe his estate?    I hope you meane not mine.   
How  ,   a Christian? Hum, what's here to 
doe? 
Oh earth-mettall'd villaines, and no Hebrews born! And will you basely thus submit your selves To leave your goods to their arbitrament?
No, Governour, I will be no convertite.
Now will I shew my selfe to have more of the Serpent   then  Then  the Dove; that is, more knave than foole.
I wud you were his father too, Sir, that's al the harm I wish you: the slave looks like a hogs cheek 
new sindg'd.
Come then, here's the marketplace;  whats the price of  What price is on   var:#Turkes] <I>Turke</I> Q, Rg#  this slave, two hundred Crowns? Do the  Turkes  Turke  weigh so much?
Why should this   Turke   be dearer then that  Moore  Moore  ?
What, hast the Philosophers stone? and thou hast, breake my head with it, I'le forgive thee.
Let me see, sirra, are you not an old shaver?
A youth? I'le buy you, and marry you to Lady vanity, if you doe well.
Some wicked trick or other. It may be under colour    of  Of   shaving, thou'lt cut my throat for my goods. Tell me, hast thou thy health well?
So much the worse; I must have one that's sickly,  and  and't  an't   be but for sparing vittles: 'tis not a stone of beef a day will main- taine 
you in these chops; let me see one that's somewhat leaner.
Where  was  wast Dd2-B (-D1)  thou borne?
Why  ,   how now  Jacomo  Jocoma  , what  hast  has  thou done?
Who is it  ?    Bernardine ? now out alas, He is slaine.
So might my man and I hang with you for company.
Not serve his turne, Sir?
I'le rather
Might he not as well come as send; pray bid him come var:#it:] ~,#  and fetch it  :  ,  what tree writes for you, ye shall have streight.
I must make this villaine away: please 
you dine with me, Sir, and you shal be most hartily 
poyson'd.
Or climbe up to my Counting-house window: you know my meaning.
Gramercy Mounsier.
A voustre commandemente Madam.
Pardona moy, be no in tune yet; so  ,   now, now all be in.
How liberally the villian gives me mine own gold.
So did you when you stole my gold.
 You  yon   run  ran  swifter when  you  yon  threw my gold out of my
Two, three, foure month Madam.
Very mush, Mounsier, you no be his man  ?  . 
He knowes it already.
What a slave's this?   The Governour feeds not as I doe.
Oh raskall! I change my selfe twice a day.
'Twas sent me for a present from the great Cham .
Pardona moy, Mounsier,  me  we  be no well.
Who carried that challenge?
No, no:
